Welcome to the Data Science Hangout. So nice to see you all and hope everybody's having
a great week. I'm Rachel Dempsey. I lead our pro community here at Posit. The Data Science
Hangout is our space to chat about data science leadership, questions you're facing, getting
to hear about what's going on in the world of data across all different industries. And
so if this is your first time joining us here today, it happens every Thursday at the same
time in the same place. So we'd love to have you come back and join us again. Also, if
you're watching on YouTube, and you want to join us live someday, there will be a link
in the recording details for you to add it to your calendar too. At the Hangout, we're
dedicated to making this a welcoming environment for everybody. And so we love when we can
hear questions from everyone, no matter your level of experience or area of work. And it
is totally okay to just listen in if you want. You don't have to jump in. But if you want
to, and you want to ask questions, or provide your own perspective, there's three ways that
you can do that. So you can jump in by raising your hand on Zoom. You can put questions into
the Zoom chat. And just put a little star next to it if you wanted me to read it instead.
And then we also have a Slido link where you can ask questions anonymously too. And I totally
forgot to make that today. So I will make that as we get started here and share it in
the chat in just a second. But I'm so excited. We have two featured leaders here joining
us today. Amanda Ahrens is ESG Data Architect at Dow and Alex Schmidt, Chemical Engineer
and Data Scientist at Dow as well. And I'd love to have you both maybe kick things off
by introducing yourself and sharing a little bit about your role and also something you
like to do outside of work. Amanda, do you want to go first? Hi, I'm Amanda Ahrens.
My job is in enterprise architecture. So like the title says, I focus on environmental, social,
and governance data architecture. So really all things sustainability, climate, circularity,
safer materials for Dow. And it's been really exciting. I wanted to take the role because
I'm as a data scientist, I was kind of frustrated that I didn't necessarily have data access in a
streamlined way. And so deployment of models was challenging. And so I wanted to be part of that
solution. And I've always wanted to get more into the sustainability realm. So it's a good
opportunity. I really enjoy curling outside of work. So even though I moved to Texas, I still
keep up on curling and get to find others from Canada and the Midwest that transplanted to Texas
there. That's great. Thanks for joining us, Amanda. I think that might be the first time
for curling has been one, but maybe not. Maybe in the chat. We'll see some others.
Alex, do you want to introduce yourself? Yeah, my name is Alex Schmidt. I am originally a chemical
engineer, as Rachel said, got into data science with a master's degree kind of halfway through
my career at this point. So I've worked mostly in R&D at Dow. So making new products, understanding
materials, a little bit in manufacturing where we can use our operations data to troubleshoot
problems. Right now I am in Dow's central R&D group for real deep technical expertise
in information research. So that's our department that does research and innovation
for computing technologies and related digital tools. And I'm really mostly working on
our MLOps and model deployment strategy. So of course there's a technical aspect to that,
but a lot of what I work on is really around change management, upskilling of data scientists
so that they can follow our governance standards, getting team leaders and project sponsors educated
so we are all on the same page about what it takes to deploy a model. So that's not something
I ever expected to be doing, but it's fun and I get to work with a whole lot of different people
all the time. So yeah, and who knows what will be the next step. I love it. And outside of work,
what do you like to do? Outside of work, I am a potter. So I do pottery. And I say that because
I'll be drinking coffee, but I only use handmade mugs now to support local artists. So this is a
local artist in Midland, Michigan named Anna Safranski. So yeah. That's beautiful. So thank
you both for joining us today. Something I have been really excited to ask you all about
is about the community building that you all have done at Dow and about data competitions
and conferences. And I just posted on LinkedIn earlier this week that a lot of people have
recently been asking me about how to get started with their own internal data conference.
And I've been asking for some tips that I've learned from others because I've never done
that myself. So I would love to just be able to hear a little bit about some of the
events that you lead to. Amanda, maybe you can kick off with the sort of background of the
community and the journey that we've been on. Yeah, that sounds good. So we have an internal
data science community that really has allowed us to lay the foundation for ever even being able to
approach a data science conference. And we did successfully have a full data science conference
last year. So we call it the Insight Scientist Community. And it was established in 2015.
And I had the privilege of helping to launch it as one of the managers for the community at that
point in time. And since then, it has grown to over 500 members inside Dow. And of those, about
100 of those people are full time practitioners and the remaining are interested parties, citizen
data scientists, people getting into data science learning. And we have a good breakdown, a big
chunk, about 35% from R&D, we have another third from operations, and then a good chunk as well
from IT and supply chain, and then the rest is kind of scattered across the other functions and
businesses within the company. So throughout the years, we've been able to do, we started off
smaller with poster sessions, we've kept up these monthly technical meetings where people can
showcase, just showcase what they've been working on. So it's kind of a more constant feed of
information out to the community. But then we were able to do our first data science challenge
in 2017. And then we did another one in 2019. And then we did our last one as part of the full data
science conference in 2022. So it's been quite, quite a journey so far. So that's a little bit
of background on the foundation for how we were able to get this all together.
I'm not as used to having two leaders on here. So feel free to just like jump in when you want
if you have something else to add to. But I will also direct the questions to both of you. So
whoever feels like answering. But I remember when we were talking a little bit about
the competition, you mentioned that you had some executives who were part of that
as well. And they were helping judge some of the submissions. And I was just
curious, like, how did you go about, like, bringing this community up to the
executive level as well? And do you have any tips for all of us to do that?
Yeah, so go ahead, Alex. Yeah, we're very lucky that we've had really strong executive sponsorship,
even from the beginning. So when Amanda, you know, was there at the founding of the community,
I think we were the sponsor, the manager that really said, yes, I'm going to put my people's
time into starting to do this, I think, reported directly to our CIO, or maybe two levels.
So it was a very close connection to executive leadership, even from the beginning.
And it was actually that executive leader, CIO, Melanie Calmar, who I think proposed the first
event that ended up being the data science challenge. So we had had many events,
we did poster sessions, we did seminars, career seminars, and we had a lot of
career seminars as well, for our members. But this was the first thing that was really kind of like,
I think the executive leaders said, how can we use this community to start creating
value for the company? Right? And I think I've got to believe that's what originally,
you know, came to their minds. And so they suggested, why don't you go figure out how
to do a hackathon? Okay, and that word can mean a lot of things to a lot of people.
But after really talking about it, we settled on this sort of shark tank, like the TV show
shark tank style thing where groups come up with a project idea and pitch it to this executive panel.
So I don't know if Amanda, you were involved in the step from getting that executive sponsor,
the one to getting a panel of eight executives in the first challenge?
I'm not so much the first one. But in other areas, I feel like what really works is having the
executive that's already on board, sell it to the rest. Like it doesn't, it doesn't work so much if
you're out there by yourself. Like if you can go along with that executive that's already on board
and kind of explain the vision of why you want to do a data science challenge or a data science
conference, and what's in it for them. It was pretty easy to get them to say yes, because they
felt like it was an opportunity that the other executive was giving them to really like help set
data science direction for the company. Because I mean, in all three data science challenges,
winning projects were implemented in some way, like even if they weren't funded directly initially,
there was such high interest by the executives and moving forward with the idea.
Yeah, all right, the number one project from last year, actually just won an Edison Award, which is
a really big research and development in STEM award. And so that's like an external recognition
to have that and that, that project, I mean, pieces of it were happening. But one of the things we try
to do with the competition element of the event is say, like really a lot of value is created at
the interface of different functions and different organizations in a company as big as Dow, which is
like 37,000 employees. And so one of the things we encourage folks to do is like network and get out
there and find people in parts of the company that you wouldn't normally talk to. And so that project
actually brought three sort of very small projects from our toxicology department, our
molecular discovery research area, and our supply chain area together to make a really powerful tool
for making safer and more sustainable products. So I think that one is like such an awesome example of
like exactly the vision of the event and to get that external recognition was really cool.
That's amazing. It's really cool to hear how you brought together people from all different parts
of the organization to maybe would have never worked together. Yeah, yeah, I think a huge part of
being able to do that is making sure that you set a theme that resonates with the executives,
but also like the mid-level managers, because they have to be supportive of their employees
actually participating in the data science challenge, because seeing how ours was Shark Tank
style, it wasn't just a day or two days or whatever, where people were working on a problem
with the same data set. It was actually over a longer period of time. So I think beginning to end
the challenge was more around two months. And so there was a lot of time spent there. So people had
to feel like it was worthwhile for their team to be spending their time up there. And so the first
theme was more general. It was like improving EBITDA. And then the second theme was around
employee experience and customer experience, which was extremely top of mind, a hot topic
at that time. I mean, it still is. And then the last one that we did in 2022 was all around
sustainability. So it was on climate, especially decarbonizing grow water and circularity and safer
materials. And so that really resonated with everybody. Everybody at Dow is trying to prove
that they're contributing to that. And that united a lot of people to come up with some
great ideas cross-functionally.
Did you come up with those themes with the executives or like the original executive sponsor?
So actually, it came that the latest theme was brought up to me by one of the technical
principals that we had at the company, who just thought it would be like a really uniting theme.
And then we pitched it to the executives that we knew were already on board and going to help us.
And they were like, yeah, absolutely. Let's go forward with it. And we thought that it was the
right time. Like Dow seeks to be the most sustainable material science company in the world.
And so that's like a very front and center theme for the company, not just like the data science
challenge. And so it's pretty easy to get executives to rally around that. It's like they
were already interested in it. It was already on their scorecard. So might as well add this to help
them achieve their goals. Yeah. But finding themes that are like enterprise level, like for the whole
company is really important because one of the things we were thinking about is like, OK, let's
make sure the theme doesn't exclude any one that has a certain type of job that just doesn't touch
that area. Right. So like if we had a theme that was like more cost effective materials, right. R&D
could work on that. Manufacturing could work out probably supply chain. But you might have people
in commercial or finance or marketing that like it didn't really resonate as much. So one, we
really wanted to pay attention to making sure the theme could be touched by literally every role
in the company so that we weren't excluding anyone. So executive sponsors tend to have goals at that
level. Right. And so they did suggest the first couple, the the one that's really just like make
more money, less exciting. Right. So there is an element that comes from tech, the technical people's
input on like what they want to work on. So, yeah, I think that one's just really sometimes you just
fall into a sort of magical, happy place where where everybody aligns on what is what is fun.
Yeah, that's a great point. So I love talking about community, but we don't only have to talk
about community in the competition here, too. I see Libby, you had asked a question a little
bit earlier. Do you want to jump in here and ask that? Yeah, it kind of falls in line with Catherine's
question, too, because Catherine was asking about kind of that same area with upskilling for your
tech stack. So she was asking about the curriculum and how you tackle the different use cases and
stuff and skill levels that people have. And then my question was on the end of like getting leaders
and ELT people on the same page with understanding what it actually takes to deploy a model.
Yeah. So I think the different parts of Dow have been on a journey with this, especially as we
start using, you know, more of the cloud based tools. We're a Microsoft Azure company
and we're trying to use those things. But of course, they're changing and maturing
the technology every day. So I think there's been definitely some journey on understanding
how to make those things work and how, especially in Dow, there's the Microsoft support page
level of answer, which is just technical. But then in Dow, there's the,
OK, well, how do I actually get access to that thing? And who's the security approver and all
these other things? So that was pretty much just a slog. Like we just had to like the first couple
of projects, you know, bless those people because it was very painful. But they documented very well.
OK, so they documented the internal work process of how to make the external technology
work for us. So that's enterprise view. My role is really specifically in R&D.
And in R&D, we have quite a different situation because
it's research. Right. And so you have this research culture. And if you haven't worked
in research, it may be hard to explain or my explanation may fall sort of one dimensional.
But you never know what's going to happen. So you charter a project and it's very difficult
to estimate the next things that you need because it could just totally fail and whatever. And so
that's the way R&D project reviews and and resourcing is used to. And then you're working
with all these people from information systems who have project managers and they have, you know,
we don't use Agile for everything, but they're used to this very formal scrum, you know,
scheduling and you know exactly what you want to implement. And then you just have to do the
steps to get to the known end product and whatever. And those are just like opposite things. Right. So
the situation that we had was R&D managers sponsoring projects with a sort of researchy
amount of funding and then doing the research part. And yeah, that's good. But then they expected
a deployment out of the end because that's what you see when you, you know, hear about AI and
machine learning deployments in the world. And so then that was kind of the same story. It's like
the first few projects were just really painful. Right. We had to come back to the sponsors and say
I'm sorry, this is going to take like eight months longer than you thought it would. And it's also
going to take three more people, like a lot, lot more than you had expected. So now that we're on
sort of the other side of that first batch of really painful products, projects, what I am
trying to do is like really capture what we learned and work with those people who now
understand they're the ones who went through the learning journey and make sure we can replicate
that. So it's things like literally, so I'm preparing, I'm going to be preparing a sort of
mini course called Model Deployment 101. It's just like literally what is a piece of software,
what is a software architecture? How do you know what you need? And in my case, we have a very
powerful tool, which is using analogies to chemical manufacturing. So everybody in R&D knows
you make a little flask of your chemical on the lab. You're like, yeah, I got a new product,
but taking it from like this much on the lab bench to a 10,000 gallon reactor, that process
is called scale up. They know that it's hard and it doesn't work. And it requires all these specific
types of engineer to make it happen. And so we're trying to say, this is the exact same, just because
you've done it in your development environment. And this model works really good. There's still
this whole process to get from that to a production software solution. And you can put
up the architecture diagram and see, and be like, look, these are like pipes. Data has to flow
through them. Would you have a bench chemist design your data pipes? Like, no, you wouldn't
do that. That's why we have to have this particular skill set on the team. And that's why we have to
have this. And so that's been the most powerful thing. I've heard a lot of feedback about
just putting the tasks that a deployment and development team has to do into the words of
your client, right? And so I'm trying to get that documented, get that in an easily digestible form
so we can kind of get the education out there for the leaders. I really love that analogy too.
I know, Catherine, you had an original question, which was kind of tied into that too. So I want
to make sure that you have, you jump in with any follow-up questions too. But I think you
had another one you just put in the chat. Yeah, in terms of developing these kinds of
continuing education or community learnings for your company, are you doing those live?
And do you have somewhere that they live after you've done them where somebody can access it
if they get onboarded later to really kind of keep that learning going? And how are you managing
that sort of like curriculum live versus not live? I think we're trying to make most of them
not live just because the need to educate somebody is so irregularly timed, right?
So it's, you know, every once in a while, like next week, we're going to have a bunch of interns
starting. And that would be a time when I could do maybe one live session and get a bunch of people
trained at once. But for like full-time hires, they sort of join randomly. And we've tried
other things with just completely different types of training in the past where you try maybe like
a quarterly and everybody from the last quarter catches up. But some of these things are so
fundamental that people need to hear them like day one, right? Like, okay, the expectation is
that you use Git, like please do that. And so we don't want to delay people's work or
people doing work in the way that we would like. So I think we're going to go mostly like
self-learning asynchronous kind of approach. As far as a common location, we have things like
that for our technical people to access technical trainings. But we don't have something like that
for more organizational soft skills kind of trainings. So I'm going to have to think about that.
One of the things that we've been thinking about is like how do we facilitate these conversations
between the technical experts and the resource holders where they basically describe what
they need to do and then they get the estimate of how much resource it will take. And that's really
the point when they need the education, right? So we'll have to think about it. But I wonder if
the technical people that are on the other side of that conversation, if they know
exactly where to go for that, then that would be the first start. Yeah, there might be a way where
you could like kind of put the trainings together into like a training flow, like do one then the
other. And then, you know, the people who have the answers can answer questions related to training
one or two or something like that. But I don't know how you set that up because I'm not a webpage
developer. Yeah. We'll figure something out. We're really, I'm really focused on, because there's a
very big, a very large amount of learning between where that maybe the average person in the
organization is and where we would need them to be to be actively involved in a digital project.
And so I'm really focusing on not trying to get everything perfect on the first try and
right now and just like getting stuff out there. And then we'll build together based on feedback
from some of those early adopters. So, but it's easier said than done, especially when you're the
one that the content is reflecting on. But I see, Alan, you had a question in the chat, too, if you
want to jump in next. Yeah, thanks. Hi. I think my question is about the communication and coordination
between like sort of enterprise architecture level and the R&D level and if and how you figure
out how, if EA needs like longitudinal planning about structure and people and resources and stuff,
do you end up with tension between like being nimble at the R&D level and knowing that
you'll be supported, like that someone will help keep the lights on at the enterprise level for the
stuff you're doing? I think that's a little different from the kind of scaling up question,
but I'm not sure. So how would you figure out how to do that kind of planning together
where like your cadences may not match and it may be really hard to anticipate what you're
going to need in one location versus the other location, like year over year, in people,
in architecture, in tools, all of that stuff, like any particular ways that you're successful?
So I swear we didn't pay Alan to ask this question. So the answer to that is actually Posit.
So in R&D where Posit, you know, products such as Workbench, Kinect, Package Manager
is actually one of the things that differentiates R&D strategy from elsewhere in the company that's
fully Azure based and does development in Azure because it is so accessible, right? So the
accessibility allows us to have much more participation in data science from all of our
researchers. And, you know, it's expected that 75%, probably more, maybe 80 or 90% of things
won't ever make it to production and like that's totally fine. And so Posit is excellent for that.
And then, of course, we can use Kinect to deploy. And then if something really scales big enough
and we have some kind of technical reason we need to move it to Azure, then we can. But so we think
of it, well, I think of it as kind of like an accessibility pipeline, right? We just want things
to be super easy in the beginning and then just make sure that we have governance in place
to recognize where we've crossed some kind of threshold where we do need improved reliability,
right? Maybe we actually need to get an ML engineer involved to make a like a hardened
solution and or we do need external connectivity. So it is our policy in DAO because our Posit
server is on-prem. We don't let anybody outside of DAO into it, right? So if you have an app that
you want to release to a customer, we have to do something different, right? So it's kind of
on me to figure out those governance thresholds of when we need to do something a little less
accessible. But that's kind of how we approach the agility is just making it super easy to get started.
That's great. Thank you. And you didn't see that question to me, but we're thinking about exactly
the same thing. How do we keep an amount of agility at one level while we're figuring out
a whole enterprise Azure stack now? So like I'm taking this to my enterprise architecture folks
to say like, look, this can work. Yeah, I'll just add to from like the rest of DAO
kind of experience. So DAO has digital centers, which are responsible for digital innovation.
There's information research embedded in R&D and there's one for like a digital marketplace
center, more on the commercial side, supply chain side, operation side. Anyways, I feel like what's
happened is the original plan was like that there would be like a sister organization that would
partner to like help support longer term. And we're still working toward that and laying the
groundwork, identifying like skills needed that aren't necessarily in those service
organizations yet. And so I've been building that over time. And then in the meantime, those like
digital centers are also working to support those really impactful
new applications and models and whatnot that have been built so that people aren't like
experiencing them for a short period of time during a proof of concept or a pilot and then
them going away. So I will say we have some growing pains that we're working through still,
but certainly making a lot of progress even over the last like five years.
Great, thank you. So much of that is really resonant and remarkable how similar some of
our thinking is, but how we still have lots of problems to solve. And yeah, it's great to hear
the way that you're coming at it and go, okay, we're not completely out in the wild in what
we're thinking about. It's great. Thank you. I appreciate it.
Love it. Abigail, I see you have asked a great question in the chat that's sparking
a lot of conversation there too. Do you want to jump in next?
Thanks. So this is the other thing we've run into when hiring. How do you figure out
like this is a skill that this position needs to have coming in versus this is
something that we can train people up in?
Oh, that's a hard question. I think the only answer that I have for that question
that I think we really know is at this point for, I would say, our materials and process
related positions. So in R&D and manufacturing, we have found that it is much easier to hire
people with degrees in that subject matter. So typically chemical engineering, and then
build up the data science skill from there, rather than hire a computer scientist and
teach them enough chemical engineering to have those really powerful conversations that
you need to have in data science. Just because I guess the engineers already have some kind of
background in math and data. But yeah, the domain expertise, it's really important. So
I think that's the only thing we really know for sure is like we want to start from the
domain expertise that we'll need for that role and then add on digital skills from there.
But, you know, I think it really is different for different parts of the project team.
In terms of like the DevOps engineering and that kind of stuff is, or ML engineering,
they need a lot less of the domain expertise. So we haven't exactly figured out, I would say,
the particular, the best way to hire for those positions yet. Other than that, since the tech,
a lot of the technology and especially like the Azure particular microservices and all that
different stuff is so new, that we do recognize that there's nobody that's got like 10 years of
experience in Azure Data Factory, for example. But so that gives you a little bit of a relief
knowing that it's everybody's kind of in the same boat and training people and upskilling people
right now.
Yeah, I think it depends on like the different areas of DAO too that you're looking at. So like
if we, will we share resumes across the data science teams in DAO too? If like our chemometrics,
statistics and AI group found somebody that like maybe doesn't have a robust, you know,
somebody that like maybe doesn't have a robust like process chemistry background, then and maybe
they're more fitting for a group like our like core advanced analytics team in IT that is working
more on like supply chain and commercial logistics kind of challenges, then like we can send that
over and be like, look out for this person. They have a really good, a really robust background.
So it's like, it kind of depends. But I will say too, we realized, I mean, ideally you would have
both the kind of industry experience and background as well as some exposure to data
science or other digital skills. And so DAO is investing in programs that help provide that,
like Alex already mentioned, the intern program with a bunch of interns starting that have more
of, you know, background, like they're pursuing PhDs in chemistry or chemical engineering or
whatever, but then also they are, they have some experience in data science. And so we want to give
them more experience in data science and those digital opportunities. Also, I am helping to plan
a program, it's called DAISY, Data Analytics for Science Immersion Experience, kind of a mouthful,
but it's actually targeted at undergrads that are studying STEM. And these are undergrads from
historically black colleges and universities mostly. And we are giving them exposure to data
sciences as a partnership with Carnegie Mellon and Accenture. And so they're going to be at
Carnegie Mellon for a week, they'll be learning some of the, being exposed to some of the lecture
material for a master's in science program, master's in data science program that they have.
And then they're actually going to come to Dow and be able to see a poster session where they're
exposed to data science projects at Dow and get exposed to like technical principals and data
science fellows and hear about their career paths and that kind of thing. So we're trying to
also foster the skills that we need to hire in the future because we know it is kind of a
challenge right now. It's a lot of one or the other. So how can we create those opportunities
where somebody would already come in with both? I will add one other thing. You mentioned, Amanda,
it's a really good point that we're well connected within our community enough that if somebody gets
a resume that would be a great add to Dow, but not their group, we know who to send it to,
right? And I would say that's probably mostly because of the Insight Scientist community.
So the purpose of the Insight Scientist community is like to make sure that we don't get too isolated
in each of our functions, right? And that we're sharing learnings because this don't, you know,
data science does cross all domains. And so when we put together, just to kind of tie back to our
our starting discussion, when we put together the steering team of that community, which we really
only formalized, I don't know, maybe four years ago now, we have, we make sure to have one person
from each of the major functions that represent the community. And it's usually like somebody,
you know, pretty senior, mid-career, which is senior for data science. And
that's like very intentional. And so that's a place where we can always go to for that
cross-functional thing. Like if I, even if I was in the community, but not well connected,
I would know I can send it to my R&D person, and they'll circulate it in that group, and it'll get
to the right place. So it does end up being a really nice vehicle for communication in that way.
Is that like a Teams group or something that you're all like in constant communication on,
or how is everybody? Yeah, I mean, we existed before we had Microsoft Teams at
Dow, but I think I was actually the chair of that steering team for
two years. I ended at the end of last year. Hooray. And so we have like monthly meetings,
just to make sure we're making progress on community goals. So we did have community level
goals around providing training, or providing network opportunities, or creating a sense of
belonging, right? Like community. And so, you know, monthly meetings, and then yeah, we use
now Microsoft Teams. So chat, and document storage, and things like that, all in one place
for coordinating. Yeah, just like quick things that come up in between the monthly meetings.
Something I thought, maybe I'm misremembering this, but I think we talked about you have these
cool like coffee hour things that your team does on Fridays, where you get to meet different
people from other teams. Is that part of the Data Insights community?
We have a couple different things like that. So we have technical seminars for the full Insights
community, but then we have, what we wanted to do was enable our members to find any type of
close-knit community they wanted to. So you are allowed to make a sub-chapter of the community,
as long as you have enough interested people to do that. And so we started with local chapters,
so we have certain sites. There's like one in Michigan, one in Texas, there's one in the
Netherlands, and one in Shanghai. For where there's sort of a high concentration of people,
they can have local stuff, and then they have basically full autonomy over what that group does.
So the Midland one, we pretty much just have happy hours. Other ones have book clubs or
presentations or things like that. So that's one of the things that we do to get to know each other,
yeah, more on like a personal level. I know a couple different groups within the company have
like, you know, sort of informal technical chats, right? Sort of like a, almost like a peer review
kind of thing to help people, you know, keep in touch with what others are learning,
but also get to know each other a little bit. Yeah, so we really try to, we're not like the
end-all be-all, right, of community planning. We try to create a platform where people can use our
distribution list if they want to get a hold of everyone. They can create another channel in the
Microsoft Teams if they want to make a subchapter. Yeah, just be a kind of a platform for folks to
create whatever kinds of groups they need to create.
Thank you. There was an anonymous question a little bit earlier that was,
how do you regain trust and rebuild reputations after failing to meet expectations, whether time
and budget, if you have experience with this, and especially when dealing with a difficult sponsor?
Yeah, that's a really, really good question. I'll say we definitely understand exactly what you're
asking. I'm trying to think of a case where it's actually the person who we've gotten to come back
around. I don't know, Amanda or James, if you have anything in mind. I actually don't know of a single
individual that like maybe has gotten burned by some of the early learning processes we were doing
and then we've gotten to come around, or maybe not there yet. Mostly it's sort of organizationally,
we do have such senior leadership that's saying like, hey, this stuff is really important. We
like have to start learning how to do it. So we do have kind of, you know, senior leadership
behind us in terms of saying, okay, look, we have it out there. This didn't go well, but we
need to try again. Like we have to try again. We don't have a choice, but usually the try again
is with somebody different, right? Just by coincidence, just because there's a lot of employees,
right? So yeah, I don't know. Personally, for just me and how I run my projects, I just am
transparent, right? Like I can just say like, yeah, that was awful. Like it was not fun for anybody.
We didn't expect such, you know, whatever, whatever, whatever. You know, that's the only way,
right? You can't cover it up, then they're not going to trust you. I think, yeah, transparency,
authenticity is the only way to trust. So yeah, I think, I can't think of an example where I
regained somebody's trust, but I have had learnings from it. So I kind of explained, because I feel
like typical IT projects, because I've spent a good chunk of my career at Dow in IT, typical
IT projects, like the only definition of success is delivery of the product that you were supposed
to go out and deliver. Whereas like an R&D, that's not necessarily the case. It's like, if you kill a
project quickly, that can still be seen as a success. And so I've been trying to use that kind
of analogy where it's like, hey, this is, we are really genuinely trying to prove a concept here.
So if we execute this project, and, you know, and find, hey, this is absolutely not going to work,
this approach that we were hoping would work, that is actually still a success, and making sure that
the sponsors are clear on what that definition of success is from the beginning. Because there are
projects that are like, okay, we've proved it, this is really more, we're going into a pilot,
or going into an implementation, and we do expect delivery at the end. That is the only definition
of success. So obviously, if we don't achieve that, then that would be not good, and they would
have problems with that. So I feel like just explaining that difference and where a project
actually is in the, I guess, realm of definition of successes.
Thank you both. I know we have about 10 minutes left here. So I want to make sure that I don't
miss any questions that maybe were earlier in the chat, too. So feel free to raise your hand here on
on Zoom if you have other questions, too. But something I wanted to ask you both is,
if you were to start this process of training and onboarding new data scientists over again,
is there anything that you would do differently, like having the experience that you have now?
I don't know that there is. I think it's really hard to separate what our specific people have
done, and where, like what a data scientist's job looks like now versus five years ago.
Like if I knew we were going to be here five years ago, I could have said, oh yeah,
like we would have done a lot more, you know, software development, best practice training,
and coding skills, and, you know, some of that other stuff. But it's not like,
you know, we're going to be here five years from now. It's like, oh yeah, we would have done a lot
coding skills, and, you know, some of that other stuff. But it's not like, I don't know,
I just think just things have changed, and so we will change. And I just can't imagine
what I would have done knowing what the future would hold. Yeah, that's a non-answer.
Yeah. Yeah, I can't think of anything in particular. I will say, like,
I like listening to the new people's perspectives because,
well, since I've been at Dow for almost eight years now, there's been pretty drastic improvement.
I'm not saying we, like, we figured everything out. We don't have a long way to go still. We
do have a long way to go still. But I feel like sometimes I'm, like, more rosy about some of the
progress, whereas, like, somebody new could be, like, extremely frustrated. Like,
why can't I do this? Like, why am I having these access issues? And that kind of thing. So it's,
like, taking note of what they have to say. Like, it's really critical because, I mean,
we would like to retain them as well. So making sure that their training experience is going well,
even though, like, we've been around to see kind of an evolution.
Yeah. I actually was thinking about that with Pawsit as well because when I started and we were
60 people, it's also, like, an onboarding experience is going to be a lot different
than from when we have, I don't know, 300 and something or 400 people. And, like,
realizing that people will have different expectations depending on that company size too.
Libby, I think you had asked a question a few minutes ago. Do you want to jump in here?
Yeah. And it was kind of along the lines of what Amanda's talking about where, like,
people come in and they have expectations that they've brought with them, right?
I have seen this happen with a lot of people and in a lot of organizations. So I'm curious how
Dow handles it when you upskill a bunch of employees into better data skills or a better
data stack or whatever it is, and then they are not able to actually use those skills in their
day-to-day job. I've seen it kind of so a lot of dissent in people. They're like, okay, you want
me to learn all this stuff, but you've given me nowhere to apply all of this, or, like, I can't
use that tool that you taught me how to use or whatever it is. So how do you guys handle that,
or is it not an issue for Dow? Sorry, million-dollar question.
I'm letting Amanda go first.
I mean, I've definitely seen it be an issue at Dow, like, when people go through, like,
more generic Azure service training, and then we've Dow-ized the environment, so then they
can't do things exactly how they learned in the training, so that can be really frustrating,
and so, you know, we're still working through combating that, but I think, like, as far as
getting, like, giving people access to other tools, I haven't seen so much. Like, people want to go do
a jump training, cool, then they'll have access to Jump or Simca Pro or whatever it is, but I've
definitely seen that, and so from, like, an Insight Scientist community perspective, like, we
definitely kind of raised those issues to leadership that could actually help us take action,
you know? Like, we got leadership to help us talk to security about, like, the issues that were
preventing people from having a similar experience. I know Alex, James, and I definitely
were on many calls in the past about those kinds of things, and so I think we still leverage the
Insight Scientist community to help us through that to try to make it as easy as possible for
people to deliver their work while also still doing it in a secure manner. Yeah, I'm so glad
you brought that up. That is another one of the key things that the Insight Scientist community
does, is serve as a collective voice for, like, the technical people on the ground, right? Because
you have, what you get is you have, you know, senior leaders that go talk to tech company
executives and hear sales pitches and whatever, and it's like, this is so easy, you know, it'll
accelerate your work, and then they bring them in and we do a training, and then it's like, okay,
I'm committed to this training, I see all the content, we're working through it, it's good,
and then we get it in the DAO environment and with the DAO security policies and work processes
and all that stuff, and it's nothing like it was in the training, right? And then your senior
leaders don't understand why, you know, they haven't seen the acceleration that they were told
would happen, and it's just a matter of education, right? It's like, there's, it's not like we're saying
that security is wrong, right? They need to do what they need to do, but everybody needs to understand
that that's happening and that it's not just the out-of-the-box thing there, right? And so we can
serve as kind of a collective voice for those shared experiences around, because the community
steering team does have access to the senior leader, leaders of each of the data science groups
around the function. So there is a, we did build an intentional communication path to senior
leadership from the Insight Scientist community leadership. One thing I will say again to answer,
I guess, the specific question is, so from those experiences, and we also have a lot of
training we're doing for people who are never going to be a data scientist, but they either
generate data or they might use data for day-to-day decision making within their jobs or
whatever. Everybody needs some kind of data literacy at this point, right? And so we have those kinds of
training programs too, and we have to be even more sensitive to that issue probably because it's not
really in their job description, right? So we're making them do these trainings that are possibly
not something they think of as their core role. And then if they don't use it,
then we can really get those resentment feelings. So what we've done is just basically really, really
customize the training to DAO and to their role, right? So we don't deliver the training unless
it's got examples of like, literally, this is what you do. You make these kinds of spreadsheets or
whatever, like, you need to do it in this way. And so, yeah, I think the issue you pointed out
is definitely a real thing. And I guess the gist of creating the content for that role is that if
you can't figure out how to do that, then maybe you should reconsider if that training is needed
for that role, right? So yeah, that's kind of what the approach that we've taken with our
sort of general literacy training. Really helpful points. Thank you so much for that.
Maybe in the final minutes here to tie it back to what we had opened up with about some of the,
like, conferences and competitions, I'm thinking about people who have asked how to do these as
well. How did you actually learn, like, what was needed for the conference or, like, what goes into
planning an event like that? Yeah. Luckily, because Dow is a huge company, we do have people,
like, we haven't used them actually for this, but there are people whose entire job is, like,
planning events, right? And so we have lots of admin support. So people who can, you know,
fill out a whole bunch of forms for badge access, who can do a lot of stuff. So there's pretty known
things there on, like, how do you get a bunch of people into one Dow location?
In terms of everything else, I think we've learned a lot from the poster sessions that
we've done every year since 2015. So that helps us learn how to gather technical submissions,
you know, how to set up a SharePoint to receive abstracts and things like that.
We even this year, people submitted their proposal via a SharePoint list,
and then they added their abstract and some extra information once they were accepted,
and then we used a power app to then make the program for the sessions available, like, on
mobile. So we didn't have to print programs, right? We could be green and just do electronic programs
and things. So, yeah, we have our Microsoft experts using all the full capabilities of
that suite. And, yeah, the other key thing is, like, you got to schedule the day around the
executives. So it's not easy to pick a date, especially considering it does have, like,
six to eight weeks of lead up to it. So you have to have a time when folks can be working on that,
and you don't have, like, the August month of vacation for Europe, and you don't have December
off for North America and that kind of stuff. But other than that, you got to schedule it around the
executives, mostly, is what we've learned. Yep. Yeah, it took a year to plan the whole thing.
So, I mean, it's every other year because it's a lot. A lot of work. Yeah, definitely start small
and literally keep every single document. Like, if you spent more than, like, 15 minutes crafting
an email, make sure you save that so that, like, it can be reused in the future, at least reference
back to, like, even if you're just starting off with something smaller, like a poster session,
because then eventually, I mean, we just naturally grew. We're like, oh, well, what if we do a poster
session and some presentations or a poster session and the data science challenge, and then it turned
into a large conference. And don't forget to have fun, right? Like, we wanted to, we scheduled in
certain times for fun and just hanging out and catching up with people, especially post-COVID.
I mean, that was really important, so. Yeah, absolutely. And celebrate with mimosa, the
drinks after. Yes, the organization team planning team advice. Yeah, that's great. Well, thank you
both so much for joining us here and answering everybody's questions. Thank you all for the
great questions, too. I appreciate it and hope to see everybody back next Thursday, too.
Thank you.